- I have a confession to make.
I have saved every single video project
from the time I began my freelance filmmaking
career over ten years ago.
It amounts to over 45 hard drives,
and well over 100 terabytes of video content.
It's true, I'm a digital hoarder.
There were no contracts that bound me to this footage
and I never made any kind of commitment to my clients
that I'd hold onto this stuff for any length of time.
It really started because as a freelancer I didn't
know if I'd need to reference those files
in the future or not.
Instead of throwing them away or wiping the content
of the drives, I collected and stored them in my closet.
This went on for years.
So I held onto them just in case I needed to access
them later on, and every once in a while that was true,
but for the most part they just sat there by themselves
in my closet, completely untouched.
And then something happened.
I stopped doing freelance work completely
and I started my YouTube channel.
But for some reason I just couldn't part with those drives.
Years after filming my last wedding, after working on local
television commercials and bar mitzvah intro videos
I still kept these drives stored away in my closet.
I rarely ever even looked at them but I had this strange
emotional connection to those dust-covered pieces
of plastic and metal.
It was more than just ones and zeros.
They represented a decade worth of hard work, commitment,
doubt, and triumph.
Anyone who has ever started a business or dedicated
themselves to their passion will understand.
Every email, every pitch, every round of revision,
every big win and painful loss sits on those drives.
Forgive me as I do my best version
of Carl Sagan's pale blue dot, but there was just something
about these drives that I was attached to.
I couldn't get rid of them.
All of that work, looking at them understanding
what it took to fill each and every single one
of those drives, I just couldn't let go.
And also deep down inside I thought that maybe one day
I'd actually need them.
And then, just this morning, an old client sent me an
email asking me if I happened to have a project from 2014.
He told me that the company's YouTube channel
had recently been deleted and no one
was able to save the file.
This was the moment I'd been waiting for for the past
10 years.
All those years of hoarding my drives and they were finally
going to be put to use.
I approached the closet looking for the drive in question,
catalyst A-05.
When I found the drive and pulled it out, my heart sank.
These drives were connected via an outdated fire wire
800 cable and old USB connections.
So I frantically searched through my cable drawer.
Nothing.
And then I pulled down my cable bin.
It's true, I'm a cable hoarder as well.
And after going through every last cable and wire
I miraculously found the right combination that I needed
to connect it to my current laptop.
I powered up the drive, my fingers crossed, and it worked.
I browsed through my client folders
and I was able to recover the file he was looking for.
I was probably looking for a distraction this morning
when I got that email and when I decided to go on this
hunt for both the right cable and the right hard drive
to find the right project for the right old client,
but there was something about being able to be of service
and help to somebody, to be able to be the only person
in the world to solve this one very minute
and trivial problem.
It felt really good.
It felt good to hopefully brighten somebody else's day
but also to lift my own.
While I had this hard drive open, I got a little bit
distracted and started to look back at some of those early
projects.
It gave me an opportunity to reminisce and reflect about
those early days, the days when I was just getting
started out and really didn't know where
this was all going to lead.
And it put a lot of things in perspective.
Looking back at those old projects reminded me of two
really important things that have helped me to get to the
place where I am now in both my life and my career.
First, put everything you have into everything you do.
When I look back at some of those early projects,
it's amazing to me the amount of time and energy that I
spent working on some of those early projects.
It didn't matter to me if my audience was two people
or two million people, I always wanted to make the best
possible video or best possible project I could,
and it didn't matter who was watching it, I just wanted
to be able to deliver, and a lot of that came from the fact
that I was truly passionate and truly dedicated to wanting
to improve as a filmmaker, and so having that
kind of attitude, not feeling like I was ever too good
for anything or too good to work with anybody really helped
me to progress, to grow and learn early on when I really
didn't have that many opportunities and I didn't
really know where my career was gonna go.
And the second thing that it reminded me of is actually
a counterpoint to the point that I just made,
and it's don't take yourself so damn seriously
all the time.
Now that I have some distance from these projects,
some of them eight to ten years distance,
I realize that I was probably stressing, anxious,
frustrated, I took myself way too seriously
back in those days.
Obviously there's a point, there's a point to where that
seriousness allow me to do the best version
of those videos as I possibly could, but I was far too hard
on myself in those earlier days, and sometimes the only
thing that I really needed and the only thing that I wish
that I had given myself was a break.
These moments are temporary.
The failures, the mistakes, the miscommunications
and mishaps, they're all very finite.
They end and eventually people move on, and it's okay
to screw up, it's okay to fail.
And it's okay to really be uncertain about where you're
going to go as long as you continue to show up
and try your best, and so understanding that perspective,
understanding that in a few years time I'm gonna be
thinking that same way about my current version of myself,
realizing that I really should be giving myself a break with
all of these projects that I work on today, has really
helped to put things in perspective for me.
And I do wanna mention that I realize that I'm not
actually a hoarder, I don't think it's a bad thing that I
hold onto these hard drives.
Of course I constantly ask that question as I practice
minimalism, eight to ten years now from when I first
got into it, does this thing add value to my life,
is this something that I'm truly using,
and will continue to use, and if not, you can let go,
but then there's always gonna be those things that are
kind of in the middle ground, whether it's a sentimental
item or it's something that you just truly don't wanna
part with right now even though you don't find use in it,
that is absolutely completely okay.
So I might not touch any of these hard drives
for another ten years, but if that's what it takes
to come through for my clients,
that's what I'm willing to do.
All right, who am I kidding, I'm doing this for me,
because, in life, there are some things that are worth
holding on to.
You know before I wrap this video up, I do have to actually
make one thing very clear, because I know it's gonna
be all over the comments down at the bottom.
The tattoos on my arm right here, they're pretty dope,
right?
That one's like a naked mermaid, it's really cool,
and that's a taco and that's a pizza and they're fake.
Natalie and I got really bored so we bought
some fake tattoos, and actually, I'm not gonna lie,
like, legit I like it.
I'm into the look.
I might actually get some real tattoos.- [Announcer] Welcome back
to What's Matt Cooking?! (applause)
(audience cheers) With your host, Matt!
- [Matt] Hey, thank you, thank you!
Oh my God, please stop,
Jim, you're too much.
Hey, guys, welcome back to What's Matt Cooking?
I'm your host, Matt,
and today we have a truly delicious meal:
butter chicken with basmati rice.
You can see right there on the package,
it says that it's authentic.
This episode is brought to you by my friends at Squarespace,
but we'll talk about them later.
Step one: remove tray from the box.
Next, for step two:
put the tray in the microwave.
And finally, step three:
remove from the microwave and eat.
If you wanna get more recipes, (applause)
you can go to whatsmattcooking.com.
Thanks so much for watching,
and I'll see you guys next time.
ugh, I hate my life.
(upbeat music)
Okay, so maybe I'm not that good around the kitchen.
But I do understand the value of cooking from home,
and truth be told,
I do have three solid meals under my belt,
if you count pancakes as a meal.
As many of us are adapting our diets
to living and working from home,
there's one thing that remains obvious:
either you plan out your meals for the week
or you face the insatiable urge
to rummage through your fridge or pantry,
snacking all day long.
If you wanna save time, money and eat healthier,
you might think about meal prep.
And so with my lack of experience in the kitchen
and to get the most out of meal prep,
I knew I had to ask an expert for help.
Kev.
- [Kevin] What up, man?
- Thanks so much for being here.
This video was filmed over two months ago
before lockdown in California,
so please don't get upset, write in the comments
or to your governor that I'm violating stay at home orders,
I've only left the house a handful of times for essentials,
and yes, I do consider ice cream essential.
- Thank you for having me back, bro.
- [Matt] That's my friend, Kevin Curry,
also known online as Fit Men Cook.
- Kevin Curry!
- Kevin Curry.
- Every day home cook,
you have like a million followers.
(laughs) - [Matt] He's got a passion
for creating healthy meals with a kick.
His specialty?
Meal prep.
I invited Kev over to get his advice
on how to better meal prep
and to also challenge him to make me
the simplest meal prep recipe he could think of.
So the brief was to create a minimalist meal prep.
- [Kevin] Right.
- What meal did you choose for us today?
- So, I thought about it
and I think I'm gonna choose fried rice.
It's one of the most minimal ones out there,
it's just five ingredients,
and it's customizable, it's really affordable,
and takes just maybe about 15 - 20 minutes to make.
And that's important
because when you select a meal prep recipe,
have something that you can make really quickly,
so that way mid-week, if you wanna make it again
and swap in something else, you can do that.
And guess what?
No food waste.
And it's food that you actually want to eat,
it's variety.
- [Matt] So before Kevin came over,
I went grocery shopping.
I messed up the brief a little bit
and got fresh veggies.
Obviously, totally fine
to make these recipes with fresh veggies,
but to keep things simple
and to speed up the cooking time,
Kev recommends using a bag of frozen carrots and peas.
Kev also recommends
eco-friendly meal prep containers that I picked up,
there's link in the description
if you're interested in getting them.
The recipe, as Kevin mentioned,
includes just five ingredients:
eggs, scallions, day-old rice, because...
- Because it gets really nice and crispy.
If you use fresh rice, it can get really soggy.
- [Matt] A bag of (clears throat) frozen carrots and peas,
and chicken.
I think one of the interesting challenges here for you
is going to be cooking in a minimalist kitchen.
(laughing)
I mean, I tell you, I've got a pan,
I've got a knife--
- Oh my God, you just have one thing of each thing?
- Yeah, pretty much--
- Oh my God!
- I've got one pot.
(laughing)
So let's just see how we navigate through this.
I'm gonna do what I do good,
which is just stay behind a camera.
- Okay.
- I'll let you do what you do good.
(laughs) - Sweet.
- Let's get to it.
- All right, man. - All right.
(instrumental music)
So first up, we need to prepare all of our ingredients,
by cutting up our vegetables and our protein.
- [Kevin] This is so satisfying.
(laughs)
You know, when you're looking at the minimal recipes,
I don't really count things
that you're probably gonna have
already inside of your pantry or your fridge.
So garlic is one thing that you should definitely have.
Mm, look at the flavor!
Mm!
Hey, Matt, this is a really sharp knife, man.
- [Matt] I actually sharpened it before you came.
- Oh, you did?
All right. (laughs)
It's like butter! - I was like,
I'm not gonna get called out on having a dull knife,
(laughing) not today.
- [Kevin] All right, so just take off the top here,
I like to just pull out this chicken breast.
- [Matt] So what are some of the mistakes
that people make when they are meal prepping?
- I think the biggest one
and the most common one
is that people do way too much,
and they see the Instagram photos of people
and their entire counter is filled up
with all these containers of food
and being like, "Yeah, I'm prepped for the week!"
And they know darned well that by Friday,
or actually, Thursday or Wednesday,
they're throwing that food away
because they're tired of it.
So the number one thing is don't prep too much,
because that's gonna lead to food waste.
We're gonna take off the skin too,
just so we can save a little bit on the calories.
Are you gonna eat that?
- [Matt] Yeah.
- You eat cold chicken skin?
- [Matt] Yeah, man.
(laughing)
- I've gotta give you a fist bump for that.
- [Matt] After we're done prepping, we're ready to cook.
I offered Kevin my microwave
but for some reason, he declined.
- We're gonna keep the heat
just a little bit lower than usual.
So I'm gonna spray in a little bit of coconut oil.
You're free to use just regular oil.
I'm gonna add in some garlic
and this is the part where you wanna add in
some of the aromatics, so the green onion.
There we go.
As soon as you hear that sound, just start stirring.
And this'll look different
if you actually pour in some oil
rather than using the spray.
Now, when we cook with too much oil,
we burn out all the nutrients in the food too.
So that's what we also don't want.
And then here, when you add the rice,
you can boost it up just a little bit, to medium,
a little bit between medium and medium high.
We wanna toast the rice
and we get all that fragrance before
from the garlic and the onions,
we want this just to get juice inside of it.
We won't have to cook this long too,
for about two to three minutes.
- [Matt] I mean, it's obviously a very short recipe.
But while you're in it,
it's just constant moving with the pan.
- Yeah, constant movement,
especially with this type of skillet
because it's stainless steel
and we're not using a lot of oil,
so it has the tendency to go ahead and stick,
and that's why you wanna really watch
the heat of the skillet too.
Next, we are going to add in our chicken.
You don't have to wait for the rotisserie to be cold either,
you can actually buy it fresh, when it's already hot
and chop it up and put it in here.
I'm gonna drop the heat just a little bit
'cause we're gonna add in some eggs.
Just make a hole right here in the skillet.
If you need to, only if you need to,
you can spray it just a bit more,
and what we're gonna do
is we're gonna crack in some eggs.
Scramble this up right here in the middle of the skillet,
and then just go ahead
and just move everything together.
You can scrape the bottom of the skillet,
get all of that,
because that is really good goodness too.
We're gonna add in some frozen peas
and then our fresh carrots,
and a little bit more of the green onion.
And then as you're folding everything together,
don't worry about the peas
because they will thaw out under the heat of the rice.
And as it's cooking, just add in some flavor.
Get your soy sauce or your aminos.
This hasn't even been 15 minutes yet.
That's why it's such an easy one to do mid-week
if you want something else
or if you just want a fresh batch of it.
I'm gonna take this off the heat.
Ah, here's what I'm looking for: sesame oil.
Ooh!
This is a great add-on,
this is gonna make everything just really super sexy.
(romantic music)
Add a little bit more of the green onion
and then some toasted sesame.
Now, remember, this stuff is not required,
so I know people are gonna write me,
"That's not five ingredients, that's not it."
We know, and I know. (laughing)
So there you go, boom!
Simple recipe. - Beautiful.
- Less than 20 minutes,
less than 15, technically.
I'll let you go ahead and go first.
- Okay.
- You're gonna be the best actor in the world now,
(laughs) you're gonna be like,
"Oh my God, this is the most amazing thing ever!"
- It's killer, unbelievable! (laughing)
No, it's really, really good.
I'm gonna eat this everyday.
Now, this tastes phenomenal.
But no matter how good something tastes,
like you said, if you overdo it
and you do it too much,
you might not finish that seventh
or eighth meal prep that you made.
So I love that you can just add some variety
to swap out the protein.
- You can swap out the carrots for some bell peppers,
you can swap out the protein,
get some shrimp, some tofu,
if you've got someone that's plant-based.
- [Matt] And that right there
is how to make a versatile, minimalist,
affordable, quick, family-friendly,
multipurpose meal prep.
If you wanna get the recipe
and try it for yourself,
I've left a link down in the description below.
Dude, thank you so much for coming.
This was a whole lot of fun, I really appreciate it.
I learned a lot,
I love just finding these simple ideas
and recipes that help us live a healthier life.
So, I appreciate it.
- I appreciate you having me. - Cool.
- Thank you, bro.
- Hey, friends, it's Matt from What's Matt Cooking?
When we wanted to build a website for our brand,
What's Matt Cooking?,
we knew exactly where to go: Squarespace.
Create beautiful websites using their templates,
right out of the box.
Use their blogging tools,
connect your social media accounts,
and customize your message to fit your brand.
Go to squarespace.com for a free trial,
and when you're ready to launch,
go to sqaurespace.com/mattdavella
to save 10% off your first purchase
of a website or domain.
Thank you, guys, (applause)
so much for watching this video,
I so appreciate you, (audience cheers)
and I'll see you next time.hey guys it's Matt and today I want to
share with you my new 20-minute morning
workout routine it's something I've been
working on over the past couple weeks
excited to share it with you let's get
into it so in the past I've had a
dedicated gym regimen most of the time
going five days a week but since
lockdown I've done my best to try to
adapt that to an at-home routine I've
stuck with strength training exercises
that replicate some of the exact
exercises I do with my typical weight
training I did experiment with a lot of
the Instagram workout routine videos and
they did have me build up a sweat but
they weren't really my style so I
primarily tried to focus on the things
that I really enjoy out of a workout I
did get some gear to get me started
including a yoga mat a foam roller and
two resistance bands you can probably
get by with just one moderate band which
in this case is the blue one but I got
to because I wasn't really sure what the
resistance would be the only other piece
of gear that I might add to this list is
a pull-up bar though I think my current
set-up will for sure get me through the
next couple of months as always I
include all the links to everything I
mentioned in this video in the
description so first let's talk about
motivation this is probably one of the
biggest things you're going to struggle
with as you start to adapt to an at-home
workout routine I know that's definitely
true of myself I found that one big
change I've made is to prioritize my
workouts in the morning so 7 a.m. 8 a.m.
that's when I'm doing these workouts
before I come up with all these excuses
later on in the day before I'm too tired
to want to even pull out that yoga mat
and start my workout the second thing
which I've already mentioned on this
channel a few times before is following
the two day rule this is especially
important now that I'm working out from
home because I just don't feel as
inspired lately and so I will come up
with more excuses and I will push off my
workouts but following the two day rule
I allow myself to skip one day I don't
allow myself to skip two days so this
just allows me to continue to build that
momentum with each workout and worst
case scenario I'm working out
every other day which is actually still
pretty good this video is sponsored by
my friends at audible at the end of the
video I'm going to share with you an
audio book that's really helped bring a
lot of perspective when it comes to
motivation so stick around at the end to
check that out
alright so I split these workouts into
three different days on day one I
workout biceps back and shoulders on day
two I workout triceps and chest and on
day three I workout legs so let's get
started with day one alright so the
first muscle we're gonna work today is
the most important muscle in the human
body
the bicep and we're going to use the
bicep curls to start so put in one or
two feet on the resistance band keeping
your elbows tucked in we're gonna bring
these resistance bands up so we'll
probably just knock out like three or
four hundred of these and we'll be good
the key to all strength training is
pushing yourself to failure with a
resistance band this can be a little bit
tricky but there are a few different
ways to get there you can use a thicker
band shorter slack on the band you can
double the bands up or you can just do
much slower reps truthfully I don't
worry too much about the exact number of
reps that I get in I'm more concerned
with trying to reach failure I typically
do three to four sets per exercise
depending on how I'm feeling now my rest
time in between sets and exercises is
typically one to two minutes I go by my
own personal feeling if you need more
discipline you might want to go with a
more calculated approach alright so the
next exercise targets all three muscles
for the day it's gonna be your biceps
your shoulders as well as your back it
looks weird you're gonna you're gonna
laugh at me but it actually works really
well let's call these the floppies so
they see you hold the band just like
this in front of your chest
and you stretch it all the way back and
activate your back just as important as
bringing yourself to the point of
failure is doing slow controlled reps
this will make sure that you get the
most out of your workout without
injuring yourself and next up we're
going to do some standing shoulder flies
so again putting one foot or two feet on
the band I actually find that even the
moderate resistance is a bit too much
for me to get good form on these
shoulder flies so sometimes I I even
bend my legs just a little bit so the
resistance isn't too much and bringing
em all the way up you can also swing
your hands forward and up to target a
different part of your shoulder so the
next workout is reverse bicep curls and
these are basically the same thing as
your typical bicep curls but you want to
switch your wrists around to the other
side and again slow and steady grips one
thousand all right so normally after my
reverse bicep curls I finish up the work
out with some crunches so let's do those
[Music]
all right so this is the new foam roller
that I got a typically relied on the one
to the gym but as you know can't go
there this is actually better than
anyone that I've used at the gym before
it is really really firm this thing
really is super painful to use so it's
not for the faint of heart
but I definitely recommend it for those
people who have a lot of tension and
tightness and their backs and need to
get those knots busted out this has been
a fantastic tool all right let's get the
day to today we're working out triceps
and chest and for me that always begins
with push-ups I usually do 4 to 6 sets
of push-ups varying the width of my arms
to target my chest
both my chest in my triceps or just my
triceps alright so I think the one thing
actually the two things that people get
wrong when they do push-ups is one they
don't fully extend their arms they kind
of have caught their arms and two is
they don't have great posture with their
back either their butt is really in the
sky or it's concave and diffic towards
the ground the idea is to have a really
straight back when you're doing push-ups
after that I do dips on my bench here
slow controlled reps to failure three
sets and we're done
all right so we're going to do another
tricep workout here this one is very
similar targets very similar muscle
group and a similar workout but using
the resistance band I find that it's a
different kind of tension and a
different different kind of difficulty
so it's a little bit silly but you want
to put the resistance bands underneath
your ankles letting your ankles hold
them down coming back behind and then
pulling up trying to keep the elbows in
let's try it you don't the help is to go
out you want the elbows to stay in nice
and tight
yes you guys can't tell already I'm
filming all these workouts in one day so
that's why exhausted whoo and
the last exercise I do is a reverse
tricep curl I hold the resistance band
against my couch and yank back on the
band with my other hand this isolates a
part of the tricep that doesn't get as
much of a workout with those past two
exercises as always I finish up with
some crunches phone rolling wincing in
agony and we're off to day three
[Music]
day three is four links I start off with
three sets of lunges and I take these
reps to failure getting my knee as close
to the yoga mat as possible without
touching it
sometimes I touch it then I do one leg
deadlifts to target my hamstring again
around three sets to failure you can
increase the difficulty here by holding
a weight in your hand I don't have any
weights so I just try to focus on
slowing down my rims and going to
failure and after that I finish up by
hammering out a bunch of squats to
failure so when it comes to leg day it's
a little bit more freeform
for me than the other days where the
regimen is a little bit tighter I
basically just do as many of these
squats and one legged deadlifts as I can
pushing myself the failure pushing
myself to the point where I'm just
exhausted tired and don't want to do it
anymore
and that's usually when I call it quits
I finish up day three with a bunch of
crunches foam rolling and writhing in
agony if you're somebody who struggles
with motivation and self-discipline I
highly recommend listening to a great
audio book by David Goggins called can't
hurt me master your mind and defy the
odds his story of transformation is
unreal the audio book details his story
from poverty depression and poor health
into an elite Navy SEAL and ultra
endurance athlete it's absolutely
inspiring as a very slow reader audible
allows me to read tons of audiobooks
each year listen to audio books while
you're at home or while you're at home
or maybe while you're at home start
listening with a thirty-day audible
trial choose one audiobook and two
audible originals absolutely free visit
audible.com slash Machiavelli or text
matt d Avella - 500 500 the links are in
the description below alright guys that
does it for this week's video thank you
so much for watching hope you got some
tips that will help you build your own
workout routine from home good luck and
I'll see you next week alright bye
get down on the floor right now if I'm
not sitting you down on the floor you're
a failure you mother hated your father
hate you and you what she wants to break
up with you- [Matt] No matter how driven you are,
you likely struggle with procrastination.
And I'm guessing, as you've transitioned
to working from home,
the situation hasn't improved much.
When it comes to putting off our work,
let's just say it's a constant battle.
(overlapping chatter)
- Help me, help me, help me!
Oh no!
- Matt, no!
- So close. (laughs)
As Steven Pressfield writes in The War of Art,
procrastination is the most common
manifestation of resistance
because it's the easiest to rationalize.
We don't tell ourselves,
I'm never going to write my symphony.
Instead we say, I'm going to write my symphony;
I'm just going to start tomorrow.
Now think about what you're going through
when you promise yourself
that you'll do something tomorrow.
All the sudden, in that moment,
all that pressure, the anxiety and the stress
is alleviated.
We feel almost productive in an odd way.
We feel like we're actually making progress
when we're not.
We convince ourselves, through all these excuses like,
tomorrow I'm gonna have more energy,
tomorrow I'll feel more inspired.
But the problem there is that tomorrow never comes
because tomorrow we don't feel inspired,
we don't have more energy,
and so we continue to push it off
until the pain becomes so great
that we can't not do that thing.
The deadline has arrived, and we have to get to work.
Or else we'll face the consequences
from our boss, the IRS, or a significant other.
- [Nat] Hey, did you get a chance to cancel those flights?
- Oh, my laptop broke actually.
- Isn't that your computer?
(laptop crashes)
- What we need to do couldn't be simpler.
Sit down and get to work.
And yet, in practice, it's not so easy.
And so in my years of working for myself
as a freelancer and as an independent content creator,
mostly working from home,
I've learned a whole lot
about how to avoid procrastination.
And I've realized that one big difference that I've made
is including an almost daily practice,
a daily ritual that takes about 15 minutes.
This 15 minute ritual includes five things that,
not only help me to kickstart my day,
but also to stay focused for much longer periods of time.
But first, this video is brought to you by Skillshare
because you're only as good
as the skills that you invest your time and energy into.
And Skillshare is an amazing platform for learning.
In fact, my friend and the author of the fantastic book,
Essentialism, Greg McKeown just released
a class called Simple Productivity:
How to accomplish more with less.
- [Greg] One of the things that makes uncommitting hard for people
is the sunk-cost bias.
- [Matt] Get this class and tons of others on productivity,
creativity, and more.
For a limited time only, use the link in the description
to get a two month free trial
of the Skillshare premium membership.
And after that, it's really affordable.
With an annual subscription,
get it for less than $10 a month.
My daily ritual to avoid procrastination begins with,
you might've guessed, coffee.
You've seen me make coffee in so many videos by now,
it's become cliche,
but it's an important trigger
that helps me get my day started.
So the important of this ritual became
pretty obvious to me when I quit caffeine for 30 days.
It wasn't the caffeine itself that I missed the most.
My headaches largely went away in the first
five or six days.
But it was that daily ritual of making a cup of coffee.
It was almost a Pavlovian response.
When I had that cup and I sat down next to my laptop,
I all of a sudden felt this surge of
inspiration and motivation.
It was the repetition, doing it every single day,
grabbing my coffee, getting to work,
grabbing my coffee, getting to work.
By the way, if you're looking for good coffee,
I get my beans delivered biweekly from
a local California company called Cat and Cloud.
If you remember, one of the owners of the company,
Chris Baca, he's the guy that quit caffeine with me
for that experiment.
- [Chris] Matt, thank you for ruining the past month of my life.
- [Matt] One thing that I've started to reintroduce
into my daily routine is a hand-written to-do list.
Before I ever started this YouTube channel,
I was a freelance filmmaker,
and during that time, I relied largely on
hand-written to-do lists to organize
all of my tasks and all of my projects.
And for some reason, over the past couple years,
I've lost touch with that.
And I think maybe it was something about now
working completely and living completely from home,
never getting out of the house.
I needed something tactical,
something that I could literally physically write down
to keep track of the most important things.
And I find that, as opposed to a digital system,
I'm much more clear on the one to three things
that are most important.
So this is what the coming week has in store for me.
Monday, edit procrastination video.
That's the video that you're watching.
Tuesday, write YouTube course.
Wednesday, film social content and take new photos.
Thursday, plan next week's video.
Friday, film next week's video.
So now when I sit down each morning,
for the rest of the week,
I can identify the one to three things
that are most important.
Not the five to 15 things that I need to do during the day.
Because chances are, if those small things
don't get addressed, don't get touched,
then it's not the end of the world.
But if I don't get those one to three things done,
then it'll likely really stilt my progress going forward.
I also really like to lay out my week
to see what's happening,
and how much progress I can get by Friday.
Because sometimes if we're just looking at today,
it can be, I guess for somebody like myself,
who's a little bit impatient,
it can get kind of frustrating.
But when you can see that whole progress
that you're able to achieve if you stay on task today.
That motivates and inspires me because
I don't wanna continue to push things
until the next week and the next week.
Now I still use the app TeuxDeux do as a digital version
of my to-do list.
But lately it's mostly a place to collect things
that I need to do, but aren't a top priority.
Like shooting some B-roll for a friend's YouTube channel,
calling my accountant to get an update on my taxes,
or reminders for ideas I like to include in my course.
The next thing that's essential for me
to avoid procrastination is to find solitude.
Peace, quiet, and no other humans,
which, in a way is easier now that
we're all locked in at home.
And in another way, it's just as difficult.
Some people seem to thrive in chaos,
they don't get disturbed by a messy desk,
harsh lighting, or a penguin dancing next to your workspace.
That's not the case for me.
Whether I'm in a room alone, or ideally, home alone,
I find that the stillness motivates me into action,
and it's far less likely that I'll stop
once I get into the state of flow.
Now, solitude is not always possible,
especially at times like these when we're locked inside
with our roommates, our spouse, or our kids.
And so we have to get a little bit more creative
to find that same kind of solitude.
And one thing that really helps me
is to put on a pair of noise canceling headphones.
By the way, if you're keeping track,
this is thing number four.
Most days when I sit down to begin my work,
I'll put on my noise canceling headphones
and play from one of two Spotify playlists:
deep focus or Lo-fi beats.
I can't listen to anything with vocals because
it's nearly impossible for me to focus.
But having some kind of instrumental track in the background
acts to lock me into my work.
I'm sure people that work in an office environment
know how powerful it is to have over-ear headphones.
It's the universal sign for get fucked.
It is incredibly helpful for
letting people know that you're locked into work,
and you do not want to be disturbed.
I've heard of other people doing things like
placing flags next to their desk
when they are really locked in
and trying to get some deep work done.
I personally have conversations with Natalie,
we talk about, when we're wearing headphones,
that's a do not disturb sign.
The added benefit of the music,
the noise cancellation, the over ear headphones,
it's just one way that I'm able to find solitude
when there maybe isn't solitude to be found anywhere.
And the last thing that really helps me
is to remove as many other distractions
as I possibly can.
There are some measures that I take
before I even start working,
like having the freedom app installed
that blocks websites that I designate.
Lately I've blocked popular news sites I go to,
as well as Reddit.
Just that barrier, just that little bit of like,
don't do it.
It just prevents that instant flinch
to wanna check those sites.
And it helps me to get back to work.
It doesn't always work.
There are lots and lots of times where I'm like,
you know, I just wanna hit little hit,
I just wanna see what's going on with the news today.
But then I find that, even if it works
40 or 50% of the time, that's enough
to avoid that procrastination and to get to work.
And on my phone, I delete social apps
like Instagram and Tik Tok.
I usually keep these apps on my phone
a couple days a week.
But if they happen to be on my phone
and I can sense the distraction coming in,
I'll simply delete them.
And those are the five things that help me
avoid procrastination and stay focused on my work.
The important thing about this ritual
is that it takes me less than 15 minutes to complete.
And once I've done it, I find that I'm much more locked in
and much more productive.
There's probably nothing magical
about the combination of these activities
besides maybe the caffeine.
But it does help me to build some momentum
towards the work that I need to do each day.
Thank you to Skillshare for sponsoring this video,
and thank you so much for tuning in
and watching these videos every week.
Hey guys, by the way, I cut my own hair.
What do you think?
Like, serious feedback in the comments.
I think I did a pretty damn good job.
The back is kinda fucked up.
The back, I don't know if you can see that,
I don't know if that's in focus,
but I kinda fucked up the back a little bit.
But you know, eh, I think it's pretty good, ya know?
Nobody has to see the back of my head.
Just from now on out,
you're never gonna see the back of my head in a video.
K, bye.- You may get stressed out by email, overwhelmed even.
Endless tasks, infinite newsletters, and spam galore.
Well, what if I told you that everything you're doing
when it comes to your inbox is wrong
and that by following a few simple steps
you could change everything, saving you hours each week?
Or you could just light your laptop on fire.
So I realize this is not exactly
the sexiest topic in the world to talk about.
Email can be a little bit boring,
but I think it's really important,
and that's the reason I'm making this video
because when it comes to your productivity,
email can be your best friend or your worst enemy.
I wanna really get into the what and the why.
So why am I setting up these systems?
What does it really look like?
Not so much the how.
You can figure out the how with
a couple quick Google searches,
but I genuinely geek out about this stuff.
I love talking about the systems and the tactics
and the nitty-gritty things that really help to make my life
efficient and then save me a whole lot of stress,
and most importantly, time.
So let's just get right into it.
First, I think it's important to talk
about how we typically use email.
It can often be a source of distraction.
We constantly check it multiple times every hour,
and that repetitive checking can slow us down
and pull us away from our work.
By choosing to batch emails once or twice a day,
if your current work allows it,
you'll be able to quickly fly through emails
and spend more time in the flow of work.
In truth, this is an ideal that I don't always live up to.
I often find myself stuck in my inbox repeatedly
checking over and over again throughout the day,
and that's okay, but when I do this,
I definitely find myself being more productive,
more in flow.
One of the ways that I avoid my inbox and also help myself
to move the needle on certain projects
is to create a shortcut on Google Chrome.
So this bookmark here is to compose email.
When I click it, it will open a dialog
that allows me to write an email message.
The great thing about it is that I can skip my inbox
and send important emails to get projects moving forward.
So if you use Gmail, I've got a link in the description
so you can just copy and paste that
into your own bookmarks and it will work.
With everything in this video and videos in the future,
all of the references are gonna be
in the description down below.
So let's get right into my actual email inbox.
So this is usually what I see when I login to Gmail.
I'll have 10 to 15 emails in my inbox,
some of them new, a few of them have been read,
but are tasks and things that I need to do in the future.
I often use email to manage tasks.
A lot of times emails are very simple, quick responses,
but sometimes they require 30 minutes, 60 minutes of work.
I have to compress out and upload
a video that might take me hours.
And so, sometimes I will take these
tasks and put 'em on a to-do list.
That's really if I'm being OCD
and I wanna get to inbox zero.
A lot times I'll just leave 'em right in my inbox,
and then, eventually over the coming days
as I find time for it I will get to them.
If it's in my inbox, it will get done,
it will get responded to.
The trick is that I don't let everything
get into my inbox to begin with.
I'll talk about that in just a second,
but first, I wanna cover some basics.
So I've enabled a feature called auto-advance,
which means that when I delete, archive, or reply
to a message it's gonna automatically
take me to the next email in line.
I also turned on this feature called send and archive,
so whenever I reply to a email,
it will automatically archive it, removing it from my inbox.
This way I can just quickly do a pass through all my emails,
cleaning up my inbox as I go.
As you'll see on the left-hand side of the screen
I've created labels for different categories of email.
The search function in Gmail is really powerful,
but it can only go so far.
Creating and managing emails through labels
can really help you find items and information
from projects that occur over the course of months.
So every time I get an email related to our wedding
I drag it into the wedding label.
All receipts from my business go in the receipts label,
and travel, itinerary, and tickets can be found under
travel 2020 in the designated destination label.
This has saved me a lot of headaches during travel.
I also have a label called subscriptions
that are the newsletters that I subscribe to.
So on that note, I am absolutely ruthless
when it comes to unsubscribing from emails.
If I buy a sweater and somebody puts me
on their newsletter without my permission,
I get very upset,
I will mark you as spam and I'll unsubscribe.
Get outta my inbox.
That's just one way that I'm able
to keep my email clutter-free.
Some of the labels like incoming, podcast, and newsletter
are how I organize all my unique email addresses.
I have multiple email addresses,
and all of them filter into one of these labels.
Incoming is my email address for people who reach out
to me via the contact page on my website.
Newsletter is another unique email
that I have set up for my newsletter.
Podcast is my email address that I use
for all of my podcast-related activities.
All of these email addresses help me to keep track
of incoming opportunities so I don't miss anything
and reply to people who wanna get in touch with me.
The most important step I've taken to keep
all of this organized is to create filters for each
of these email addresses so they automatically skip my
inbox and go directly into one of these designated labels.
This is an automated system.
You set it up once, and now,
all your emails automatically filter into a specific label.
This is a absolute game changer,
and it has saved me so much time, and also,
gotten me to be really clear on what emails I'm checking
and what mindset I'm in when I'm checking them.
In addition to setting up filters for my different
email addresses I've also created one
for the newsletters I subscribe to.
So all of these newsletters automatically
filter into my subscription label.
So one thing that I started to do just a couple
months ago is whenever a receipt comes
into my inbox and it's something,
a place that I know I'm gonna be
purchasing from again for business,
say it's a coffee shop,
it's a place where I get cameras from,
it's an Amazon purchase,
I wanna make sure that automatically
filters into my receipts.
To do that, I just take the email address that it came from,
and then, I put it on that filter.
And then, I can just continue to add as many
email addresses as I want to that specific
filter sending everything to receipts.
That's a tip that I got from Thomas Frank,
so thank you much sir, thank you my sir.
Let's talk about templates.
If you find yourself constantly writing the same email
over and over and over again you can use templates
to save you hours of drafting the same exact message.
I've created a few template responses
to commonly asked questions that I get.
Sometimes I'll tweak and customize them,
but even having a starting point
of a response saves me a ton of time.
Let's look at some examples.
If someone didn't get my newsletter,
this happens pretty often,
it's usually in their spam folder,
so I have a reply for that.
Back when we released our documentary "Minimalism"
I would get screening requests every week.
This template definitely saved me a bunch of time.
So to finish up here, there's two more features
that I wanna talk about that have really helped me a lot.
This used to be a extra plugin,
an extra app that you had to use to install into Gmail,
but now it's built natively in,
so it certainly saves me a lot of time.
The first one is called snooze.
So I can use the snooze button to remove something
from my inbox for a period of time,
say until I can get to the request next week,
or it can be used to remind me of when
someone doesn't respond to my email,
which again, is hugely helpful so I don't need to keep track
of all of the communications that went unreplied to.
You can also now schedule emails with Gmail,
which is something that I used to do a lot
when I was younger and I would procrastinate on projects.
There would be those nights when I'd be up
until 3 AM the day before a project was due,
and I didn't want to look like a total piece a crap
by sending my client this email at 3 or 4 AM
when I finished up so I would simply just schedule
it for the morning at 8 or 9 AM,
and now I don't look like a dead shit,
I look like somebody who's got my shit together.
So that works out really well.
I don't do that much anymore.
I've kind of got things together at this point
so I don't procrastinate as much,
but hey, if you're a younger version of me,
this will help you a lot.
I also use this now if I'm scheduling social media
content to someone who has appeared
on my YouTube channel like I just showed you.
Instead of sending the email one month
before the video goes live or having to remember
or set a reminder to do it I can craft the email,
schedule it, post all the media files,
and then, send it to them a few days before it goes live.
Super convenient.
And that is it.
That's the end of this video.
Thank you guys so much for watching.
I really appreciate you sticking around
and taking an interest in email.
This, I hope, was an interesting video.
I was afraid to make this video.
I was like, I can't really make a video about email, can I?
Can I?
I should, I must, have to.
Did it.
Thanks for watching.
If you want more videos from me, go to Instagram.
I've been making a lot of videos on Instagram TV
behind the scenes talking a little bit more
about these kinda things and what goes into 'em.
I don't know why I touched my head like that.
Weird, see you guys.
Thanks for watching, bye.
Are you still there?
You're still there, huh?
(mellow R&B music)(cheerful music) (birds chirping)
- [Matt] So now that I spend all my time at home,
I've made some big changes to how I start my days.
Typically, I wake up and pull my phone
into bed first thing in the morning.
It's the time to catch up on some light reading.
Then I head to the bathroom to freshen up.
I pee sitting down now.
It just makes me feel more stable.
Then I wash my hands.
After that, I make a cup of coffee while catching up
on some of my favorite podcasts.
- [Donald G. Mcneil Jr.] I mean, we're gonna come out of this
as a different nation
a different people (voice echoes)
- And then I wash my hands again.
One mindfulness practice
that has really helped me a lot lately is to journal.
And finally, I wrap up each morning
with a pep talk from Natalie.
Nat, is everything fine?
- Ehhhh.
- You wanna just get drunk, then?
- It's literally 11 a.m.
- Yeah.
- And that is my new morning routine.
So, in all seriousness,
I actually have struggled quite a bit over
these past few weeks.
I wouldn't say that is a complete parody that you saw.
A lot of these things are true,
I've been consuming too much media,
I've been too sedentary,
I haven't yet figured out how to bring these habits
and routines into my everyday life
the way that I typically do.
Now, the one thing
that I've always tried to do on this channel
is be open and honest with you guys,
not pretend to be an expert when I'm not,
and not try to pretend
like I have my shit together when I don't,
and right now, I feel like I'm just starting
to get my shit together.
Over the past couple days, I've been figuring out new ways
to create healthy habits, routines and structure.
That's really the most important thing
I've been trying to figure out,
because when you're at home all day,
that leads to different hurdles, different challenges
that you have to overcome.
And so I wanted to share with you guys
some of the things that I've been learning.
(upbeat music)
So I've really started to cut back on the amount of media,
especially the amount of news that I consume every day.
For the past month or so as we've been trying
to figure out whether or not we need to postpone
and cancel our wedding in Italy,
which we inevitably ended up doing,
which probably isn't too much of a surprise
considering the circumstances,
we were just glued in every single day,
checking every 15, 20 minutes,
and then even after we postponed our wedding,
that did not change for me, I just, every morning,
I'd wake up looking at my phone,
checking it throughout the day.
And what I've found was that the more I checked,
the more overwhelmed, frustrated, and miserable I felt.
And while I do think it's important for us to be informed,
I think that there is only so much
that we can do until we realize, okay, I know enough,
I'm doing enough to help, I'm doing my part.
There was a great podcast
I listened to recently by Sam Harris
where he talks about these precautions
of washing your hands and social distancing
and comparing them to wearing a seatbelt.
- [Sam Harris] Once you're motivated, once you understand utility,
none of us have to feel anxiety
when we get behind the wheel of a car
to motivate us to clip in our seatbelt.
That gesture now is an automaticity,
and I think the same can be true
of a response to a crisis like this.
I mean, once you figure out what you should do,
well, then you can just do that thing,
and all this ambient anxiety can be dialed down.
- One big turning point for me
after two weeks of living in a very messy workspace,
having camera gear cluttered all over the place,
was to finally sort my editing desk,
getting everything organized,
finding a little bit of clarity amongst the chaos.
(upbeat music)
(Matt coughs)
That's dust, that's from dust.
Since Natalie is now working from home as well,
we actually set her up a desk right over here
so she can work from the office as well,
which has been pretty cool.
- Yeah.
- And I've finally started to rebuild my workout routine.
Now, I personally much prefer to work out at the gym,
I've never been somebody who likes working out from home
using bodyweight exercises.
But obviously, considering the circumstances,
I need to adapt, I'm not willing to sacrifice my health,
especially considering this may go on for a few months,
so right now, I'm in this process of experimenting.
(upbeat hiphop music)
Alright, you guys wanna see
what is on my workout playlist right now?
I always start my workout these days
with "WHAT'S POPPIN'" by Jack Harlow.
I feel like I'm late on this one,
but it's a really good song.
The great thing about these times
is that there are so many people online
creating workout routines,
different things that you can do from home
with very limited equipment.
And you know, being a minimalist, I don't have a whole lot,
but it's going well.
I mean, it's still very early on for me
in working out from home.
I still don't love it,
there's still a lot for me to figure out,
but I think the biggest thing right now,
I'm leaning into experimenting,
trying a whole bunch of different things,
and most importantly, figuring out what I enjoy the most,
because if I'm not enjoying it,
and if you're not enjoying your workout,
there's no way that you're gonna be able
to stick through with it.
For the record, that is Natalie's coffee.
I don't put milk in my coffee.
Not that there's anything wrong with that.
But there's seriously something wrong with that.
Getting out of the house, getting some sun, walking around
and getting as many steps in as we can
has been vital for keeping our sanity (chuckles)
It's very easy to get cabin fever
when you're staying inside,
working from home, working out from home,
doing everything from home,
so that has given us some peace and solitude.
The hiking trails have been just packed
and nobody is giving any amount of social distance,
which is really frustrating,
and it actually defeats the entire purpose
of going on a hike.
We're trying to, like, reduce anxiety.
- [Nat] Yeah. - And then we just
find ourselves stressed out.
But literally, yesterday we found out
that all hiking trails,
all beaches are now closed in LA County.
So Natalie's telling me it doesn't look good
to tie my sweatshirt around my waist.
What do you guys think? - [Nat] No.
- Look at this, that's hiphop, baby.
- [Nat] No.
- That's hiphop, everybody knows that.
I have been using the two day rule,
which many of you guys are familiar with.
The two day rule is when you make sure
that you don't break a habit for two days in a row.
So you can take multiple days off a week if you need to,
but it reduces the amount of time between,
say, going to the gym,
or in this case, working out from home,
so you don't lose track and you don't lose momentum
when you really need it.
And I find that this is especially important
in the very beginning as you rebuild a habit,
it might happen when you come back from vacation,
to keep that consistency going,
literally doing it every other day if you have to,
every day if you can,
and then whenever you need to, take a break.
but the two day rule has helped me out a lot.
What'd you get?
- [Nat] Mayo!
- Mayonnaise! (chuckles)
That's a whole lot of mayonnaise, bro.
- No, it's not just mayo.
(plastic pops) Ah!
- Oh!
- Ah! (laughs)
- [Matt] You having fun?
- It's the most fun I've had in a week.
(laughter)
- If there's anything that I've learned, personally,
through this whole experience,
is that I needed a little bit of time to adapt
and to adjust,
and that meant a couple weeks without working out,
it meant, and it's gonna continue to mean,
a lot of experimenting to find what really works for me,
and I definitely encourage you guys to do the same.
At this time when there is so much
that is out of our control,
we need to hold on to those things that we can control.
There are ways in which we can help
to improve our mental health,
our physical health, our relationships,
and we need to do everything we can right now
to make sure that we're happy, we're sane,
and we are there for each other.
So let me know down in the comments
how you guys have adapted your schedules, routines
and structure during these times.
Let me know also what kind of videos
and what kind of topics you would like me to cover
in the next couple weeks.
I have adjusted my schedule a little bit
and pushed some videos back
just because they didn't make complete sense
given these times,
and I'm trying to make content that's relevant right now.
So let me know, I'll see you down in the comments,
and yeah, that's it.
Thanks, guys, bye.- [Matt] Dreams.
You know, the place where your punches
are only half as effective, (air whooshing)
all your teeth fall out,
you can only run away from bad guys in slow motion,
and the source of the biggest fights in my relationship.
- Who is she?
- What are you talking about?
- You cheated on me in my dream.
- It was your dream.
- Ugh.
- Out of all the things
that can be said about dreams,
one of the wildest claims that's ever been made
is that you can control them.
And I should know, I've done it.
All right, I get it, I know what you're thinking.
Matt has officially lost his goddamned mind,
but really I think there is something to this.
Just stick with me for a second.
So this whole dream experiment got started
when I received a message from someone
asking me to look into lucid dreaming.
And the very next thought that I had was
I'm pretty sure I've done that before.
Lucid dreaming is what happens
when the dreamer becomes aware that they're dreaming.
That awareness is all it takes to become lucid.
It's a pretty trippy phenomenon
that's been documented since ancient Greek times,
but it's also been formally researched since the 1960s.
And that research has proven
that people can have some level of awareness while sleeping.
Dream researchers were able to determine this
by agreeing upon pre-arranged eye movements
with dream subjects,
and then measuring eye movement
while these subjects were fast asleep.
Most people get interested in lucid dreaming
to fulfill their fantasies,
but some say that it's a gateway into your subconscious.
So you know, the further that I went down this rabbit hole
the more research that I did,
the more I realized
that I really should be speaking with an expert.
So Jared, when did you first start
getting interested in dreams?
- So I've been thinking about dreams
ever since I was a kid.
- Do you wanna do this interview somewhere else?
- Okay.
(playful music)
- [Matt] That guy is Jared,
the co-author of "A Field Guide to Lucid Dreaming".
- Usually when we're dreaming,
we're very much on autopilot,
we just sort of accept it.
It's a roller coaster at times,
but we are locked in on that track.
And a lucid dream,
you could still be locked in on the track
but you're like, "Oh, I'm enjoying this"
or maybe if it's a nightmare,
"I'm not enjoying this",
but you are aware that you are not in the waking world
but in the dream state.
- So it starts with that awareness,
and then from there, though,
we could also start to begin
to figure out ways to control our dreams, right?
- Yeah, so the awareness is kinda like the base camp,
and if someone just becomes aware,
they can be fully engaged and just ride along with the dream
or they can actually decide to interact with the dream,
talk with dream characters, kinda direct the dream,
or just change it completely.
- This is silly (laughs), it seems really weird, right?
Okay, so just as I was about to get started
with this whole thing,
I decided that I wanted to set the stakes really high.
I didn't wanna just become aware
that I was dreaming in my dreams,
I didn't wanna just control my dreams,
I wanted to manifest something in the real world
and bring it into my dream.
So (laughs) this is silly,
it came spontaneously,
but I was like, "I wanna smash a cake",
like a chocolate cake, a carrot cake,
I don't care what kinda cake.
I just wanna smash a cake in my dream,
throw my fist through it,
smash it with a hammer, whatever.
If I can do that in my dream,
I will prove that anything is possible
when it comes to lucid dreaming.
And so equipped with advice from my new BFF,
I got started.
The first tactic he suggested I use,
set an intention to remember my dreams.
- You know, same way if, like,
you're always forgetting
to take out the trash on trash day,
but you say to yourself,
"All right, every day I'm just gonna say,
"'Don't forget to take out the trash,
"'don't forget to take out the trash.'"
And most likely, when trash day comes,
if you've been saying that over and over and over,
you're not gonna forget.
- I spent my days and nights repeating the phrase,
"I'm going to remember my dreams."
"I'm going to remember my dreams."
I wrote it down in my journal over and over and over again.
So another night,
another night without a lucid dream.
One night, Nat and I started dancing around the kitchen
like a couple lunatics chanting it out loud.
- [Both] I'm gonna remember my dreams, two, three, four.
- And then I began to make progress.
I woke up remembering my dreams for the first time.
I quickly pulled out my journal
and wrote down everything I could recall.
I would probably say a month ago,
I didn't remember any dreams.
I feel like I haven't remembered my dreams for years.
It's very easy
for the details of your dreams to slip away.
By keeping a dream journal close to your bed
and writing them down immediately upon waking up,
you're starting to tell your brain
that dreams are important
and that you wanna remember them.
Another thing Jared says you can do
is give yourself a reality check.
Just like the spinning top in "Inception",
if you continue to check in with yourself
throughout the day,
asking the question, "Am I in a dream?"
and combine that with a physical action
like poking your finger into your hand,
it can help you to ask that same question
while you're dreaming.
- You just try to see if your finger goes through your palm.
And it's not, so I'm gonna go with the assumption
that we are not in a dream right now.
- This is freaking me out, man.
I'm sorry, dude, I should not have taken edibles
before this interview.
So I went throughout my day
checking to see if I was dreaming.
I wasn't. (car horn honks)
Each night for the next two nights,
I remembered more and more of my dreams.
Their contents weren't that interesting,
but I was excited to be making progress.
And then finally, I did it.
I remember tossing and turning in bed a bit
in the early morning,
probably just before sunrise.
When I sunk into my next REM stage,
I woke up
(water crashing)
in my dream.
It was only just for a moment,
but I was aware that I was dreaming
while I was dreaming.
- Hey Matt, it's Jared,
the guy from the interview.
I'm an elephant eating purple peanuts.
You know, it's delicious,
and I wanna stay in the dream with you,
don't let me leave.
You know, keep your lucidity.
- And then I lost it.
I'd had this feeling before, this wasn't new.
Like I said, I've had lucid dreams in the past,
but it was really exciting to know
that I could actually intentionally create a lucid dream
just by thinking about it, just by talking about it,
I realize that I could potentially have more lucid dreams.
That said, I still felt like
I was a really long ways off from smashing a cake.
(sheets rustling) Hey guys, by the way,
this video is brought to you by Squarespace,
because dreams are cool,
but bringing your dreams to life is even cooler.
- Can you not right now?
- Oh, sorry.
(playful music)
Sorry about that.
Back when I was in high school,
I had this dream to become a professional filmmaker
and run my own business.
But back then it was crazy difficult
to bring your ideas to life.
Now, not so much.
With Squarespace, if you have an idea,
you can use their beautiful and professional templates
to launch your website the same day you sign up.
Use their tools for blogging,
get powerful analytics,
connect your social media accounts, and much more.
Or keep things crazy simple like I do
and set up a website with an email sign up form.
Go to squarespace.com for a free trial.
When you're ready to launch,
go to squarespace.com/mattdavella
to save 10 percent off your first purchase
of a website or domain.
Okay, I'm gonna go back to bed now.
(sheets rustling) (Matt exhaling)
(Matt sighing)
- Who the (beep) is Squarespace?
- Most people when they enter their first lucid dream,
they're not gonna have sort of an omnipotence,
kinda God-like power.
And so in the same way
we need to learn skills in the waking world,
sometimes we also need to learn dream skills.
- And so I got back to work,
this time repeating the mantra,
"I'm going to control my dreams,
"I'm going to control my dreams."
I continued to remember dreams on most nights
and wrote them down in my dream journal each morning.
I kinda had a lucid dream.
I had like something where I was in this
black void of fogginess of sleep,
and I thought to myself, I'm dreaming, I'm dreaming.
And then I didn't, like, have a dream, it's weird.
It was like purgatory for dreaming.
So that feels like something.
And then I had another lucid dream,
this one about 10 times more intense
and way more vivid than the first.
I walked into my parents' bedroom
back home in New Jersey
and felt like something was off.
It was exactly as I'd remembered it as a kid.
I asked my mom what year it was,
and she said, "It's 1999." - It's 1999.
As I walked closer to my parents,
I noticed that there were two of my dad,
and that's when I realized I was dreaming.
- Hi, Matt, it's me, your dad.
- It was vivid, just as vivid as real life.
And then I remembered the cake.
I turned around
to try to bring it into my dream and smash it,
but it wasn't there.
At that moment I began to run into the kitchen
to try to open the fridge
to see if there was a cake inside
but then my dream started to get echoey and faint
and I started to lose it.
Once I woke up, the dream memory
started to slip away from me as well,
and I realized just how easy it would've been
to just forget about this whole experience entirely.
So I grabbed my phone, ran to the bathroom,
and wrote down everything I could remember.
It got oddly emotional for me.
I think it was because I was,
I really felt like I was there.
I felt like I was at my home back in Jersey
at a time and a place that will no longer exist.
The only place it exists is in my memory,
and now my dreams.
And to be there,
to really feel like I was there, was super crazy (laughs).
You know, I'm just kind of
on the brink now of lucid dreaming
and learning what's possible.
This was a huge milestone
in learning how to actually control my dreams.
One essential part
of learning how to lucid dream
is understanding when we dream.
And through the various stages of sleep,
the most likely time to have them
is during rapid eye movement, or REM.
- What's interesting and what kinda pertains
to lucid dreaming
is that the period of REM over the course of a night
gets longer and longer after multiple sleep cycles.
You wanna focus on that long period of REM
because you get lucid,
you can actually explore the dream
for a longer period of time.
If it's earlier, you might become lucid,
and then it ends before you can actually do any exploration.
(peaceful music)
So to better help me track my sleep,
I'm gonna be using one of these Oura rings.
It's actually got sensors on the inside
that tracks your sleep.
My hope is that by tracking my sleep
I'll get a better idea
of how much time I'm spending in REM.
The time in REM,
it varies from 15 minutes to an hour and a half.
So if I can improve my sleep throughout the night
and if I can get enough restfulness throughout the night,
hopefully I'll be able to have more lucid dreams.
By tracking my sleep,
I was able to experiment
with one of the more extreme lucid dreaming techniques
called wake back to sleep,
the process of setting an alarm
before you dip into the longest period of REM.
With this technique,
the idea is to wake up for 20 to 40 minutes before REM,
raising your awareness but staying on the edge of sleep.
Then when you dip into REM,
you'll be more likely to have a lucid dream.
Hey, guess what time I'm setting the alarm for tomorrow?
- Don't.
Don't. - Like three a.m.
- Are you joking? (air whooshes)
(alarm beeping)
(Matt breathing)
(switch clicks)
(Matt groans)
- I'm gonna head back to bed now,
try to get a dream going.
But this was a dumb idea.
(air whooshes)
(birds chirping) It didn't work,
I couldn't get back to sleep.
Woke Natalie up, she couldn't get back to sleep.
So we were both just awake for,
let's see how long.
I had a total
of six hours and 23 minutes of sleep last night.
I think I'm done
with this little strategy, this technique.
And as I continued on with this experiment,
I found that lucid dreaming
was pretty much a roll of the dice.
Most nights I didn't have them,
but I broke through two more times during this experiment.
I'm not really sure if there's any correlation
between how hard I try
and how often I have a lucid dream.
I feel like so much of it is just a luck of the draw.
What are you doing, Nat?
You're popping your head (laughs) in the background.
And while I can control
various aspects of what I do in my dream,
I'm often at the whim of my subconscious,
floating from one location to another,
one thought to the next,
far from the mastery that I've heard is possible.
- Keep your lucidity, I'm a maid of (laughs).
- (laughing) I did not see that coming.
All right, guys, I'm gonna level with you here.
I was not able to manifest a cake
and smash it in my dream.
I know, I think maybe it was a bit ambitious
to assume that I could master that level of lucid dreaming
in only three weeks,
but it is what it is.
At this point, I have other experiments
and other videos and other things that I wanna work on,
so I've gotta kind of tie this one up.
So unfortunately,
I would say that this is kinda the end of chapter one.
I do wanna continue to try to do it,
so who knows, maybe I will be able to do it
in the coming weeks.
Maybe tonight's my night, I don't know.
I just can't wait around for it to happen.
But then I started to think, you know,
I wasn't able to make it happen in a lucid dream,
but then there are other ways
to make your dreams become a reality.
(air swooshing) (fist pounding)
(air swooshing) (fist pounding)
(Matt laughs)
So that did not at all work out
like I thought it was going to.
(crowd screaming) (announcers shouting)
- [Announcer] No!
Oh no!
- I in my head thought, hey, I'm gonna smash this cake,
my hand's gonna go right through it.
I hit it once and it hurt.
It's fine, it's fine.
Thanks for watching guys.
Really appreciate you sticking around
to watch me eat this cake.
If you yourself have had a lucid dream before,
let me know.
This is a dense cake.
Shoulda got the carrot cake.